Slide 1: Tooba

Good afternoon professors, 

My name is Tooba and this is my partner Zinah on the screen with me. 
We will be going over our project, the employee management system.

Slide 2: Tooba
The preseantation wuill be structured to explain what and why we are doing the project 
in the objective and background. This will be followed by the requiremnets, 
design and implementation details of our project. We also have a short demonstration video
that will show what we have complteted so far. We will finish off the presentation by 
going over our plan for the future work.  

Slide 3: Tooba

Our objective is to build an Enterprise resource planning system, ERP for short. 
An ERP is a system that is used to manage many different aspects of a business.
Zinah and I have both used ERP's at our respective workplaces and ran into many issues 
on the employee aspects of these systems. Because of this, we have chosen to focus
on the employee management aspect of the system to comabt issues we have faced while 
using other systems. 

Slide 4: Zinah
Handing it over Zinah 

Slide 5: Tooba
I will be going over the functional requirements of our system.

I'll start with main requiremnts or features we have included in our ERP. 
The first one is the three levels of access. As mentioned earlier we want to have a dedicated
employee portal, and have decided to include a portal for employee, HR and managers. 
Each portal will have access to only the features dedicated to thier level of access.

The system shall also have a real time generating reports page or feature. 
These reports will use the stored company data to generate a chart similar to
the picture. We will be including two charts, one for tracking pay distribution and 
one tracking employee work time also refered to as time cards.
 
The next requirement is a notification system. This system will take requests from employees 
regarding vacation, equipment and work from office and send a notification to thier 
respective managers. Managers desicion to approve or reject these requests will also be 
sent to the employees as a notification.
 
Another requirement is automation. We will be automating the process of adding 
new employees to the system. This is to reduce the paperwork required by HR when hiring a 
new employee. 

The next requiremnt is ensuring that the interface is user friendly and intuitive. This is
included as a requirement, because other systems, specifically pheonix have a difficult 
to navigate interface.    

Slide 6: Tooba

I will now go over some of our general requirements. These are the requirments that 
usually vary company to company based on what they need. 
We have come up with a list of required features that are generally available in any ERP. 
To better understand these requirements, I will go over the general look of our system. 
Our erp is going to be a desktop application that includes navigation tabs for employees 
to access what they need. The requirements mentioned below will be 
included in the form of a navgation tab. 

Starting with the administrative features, we are including salary information such as 
T4 and paystubbs. Then we HR requirements which include features such as 
add new employees, as well as remove employees, edit thier information and change thier 
level of access. For manager requirements we are adding in viewing a list employees,
adding note in employee files, project tabs. For general employee requirements we are 
including tabs to view shedule, benefits and time punches.    

Slide 7: Zinah

Slide 8: Tooba
We include a notification system in our application as we felt that it was a very important 
tool to provide communication and updates to employees. In our research phase, we had 
decided to use sockets to send data back and forth between different computers to update
the notifications in real - time. While creating a database, we found an easier solution. 
Our dtatbase is designed to store notifications every time one is sent out, and we are
including a timer function which will update the notification page every few seconds. 
And this will simulate a real - time update for the notifications. 

Moving on to automation. We are automating the process of adding a new employee to the
system. This idea was developed after speaking to Terrance, the head of Hr and technologies 
at carleton, who explained that a new employee had to be manually entered and thier 
paperwork needed to manually maintained in the system as well. In our system, Hr will only 
need to enter a new employees basic information, contact and hiring details. After enetring 
this information, the system will generate and ID, password and orientation forms for the 
new employee. The new employee can then login to the application and fill out the forms 
which will automatically be added into the database.  
  
Slide 9: Zinah

Slide 10: Zinah

Slide 11: Demo

Slide 12: Tooba


Slide 13: Zinah

Slide 14: Zinah
